SAM:
Previously on  Aquarius...
Stop. Get in your car and go.
He owes me, and I can use him
to get in with Butano,
skip the pushers,
get to the supplier.
(GUNSHOT)
(BODY HITTING FLOOR)
But maybe now
you feel different
and I hope
you're more disposed
to seeing me
for what I am.
That is so cute.
Would you please go
get me a cup of coffee?
Do you know
what emancipation is?
-Yes.
-We'd just make it official.
-Set you legally free.
-EMMA:  You and Charlie...
I saw the way you
looked at each other.
Goodbye, Ken.
Why are we working
so hard to find
a hooker who's been
missing for seven years?
Because a guy
named Ken Karn
and his friends
don't want us to.
(CHRISTMAS MUSIC PLAYING)
-Salazar again.
-Jeez. What now?
Spics can't get justice
'cause there's no spics
in the department.
Not true.
Cleaning lady...
Ladies.
Plural, please.
We got Portillo, Sanchez,
that new meter maid, Corazon.
I think he means
no senior officers.
It'd be good if
there were a few.
Nice to have some brass
I don't have to listen to.
You don't listen now.
Sorry, what?
(CHUCKLES SARCASTICALLY)
Spics should get promoted
'cause they're spics?
Give me a break,  por favor.
(CHRISTMAS CAROL PLAYING)
Oh, yeah, this is what
I call a real pickle.
Ah.
What?
It's the orphanage Christmas
party and I'm late,
and you still owe 10 bucks
for presents.
You know...
I was wondering where
the lieutenant is.
Your fairy godfather's
at a racket in San Diego.
Sorry.
Left me in charge, again.
None of that's yours,
I hope.
No, I'm fine.
Look, there's no getting
around it. I'm a witness.
Well, I'll go bust Lucille and
that biker and call it a day.
I don't want Lucille.
I want  guapo.
-Then you didn't see anything.
-Oh, man. Here we go again.
Yes, again, so why don't you
predict what I'm gonna say
so I don't have to say it,
again.
Something like, uh, Jimmy was
a low-life criminal,
didn't pay his taxes,
had it coming.
-Something like that?
-Yes.
That's what actual policemen
call "misdemeanor homicide."
Jimmy was your route to  guapo.
Jimmy is now dead.
Lucille is now your route.
But she can't be your route
if you arrest her.
CUTLER:
Plus no body.
How much does the DA
love that?
We all love that.
CUTLER: Listen,
it's your call, junior.
Sammy here can go make
two murder arrests
that'll never stick,
and blow your cover.
Or, we just call this one last
name on my naughty list.
MIKE:  No.
SHAFE:  Mike?
MIKE:  Man, I'm done.
-Look, I get it. Okay?
-No, you don't, man.
Look at you, you have got
a job. You have got a life.
You are in charge of you.
First of all, I'm a cop,
so, no, and second of all,
I'm married, so really, no.
You're married?
Yeah.
-Did I know that?
-I hope not.
Otherwise, I'd be
pretty bad at all this.
You have kids?
One.
(LAUGHS)
I want to have kids.
Someday.
Well, first, you got to
get to "someday."
So you're gonna go back
in there, you're gonna stay
close to Lucille,
and you're gonna...
Give her anything she wants.
You don't know
what you're asking.
None.
In the bedroom,
it's like being mauled.
Oh, I am weeping for you.
-You want me to show you what
she did to me last night?
-No, no.
This is after she wasted
the guy, man,
because the blood,
-it just riled her up, man.
-Stop. I believe you.
-I believe you, okay?
-She's out of her mind, sick.
-Look at this.
-Mike, okay?
But she likes you.
And she trusts you and right
now, you got her in heat.
Mike, my job is to get
that woman to trust me.
Which she only half does.
Your job is to ball her
until she can't see straight.
I really think you're the one
coming out on top.
(GROANING)
-All the lines come...
-KEN: Charlie?
Give me a moment.
I was just there, Charlie.
Where's that, Kenny-Ken?
You know.
I see.
How is she?
Not she. Not anymore.
(THUNDER CRACKING)
It.
If that makes it easier
for you, then, sure...
"It" she is.
I should have done this
a long...
It's gone, all of it.
The police, the papers,
the FBI.
Take them all there.
It's just rocks again.
Now there's nothing
you can do to me.
And Emma?
Her being gone...
Was that you?
She's not here?
Took off wearing that same
pretty dress she came in.
(SIGHS)
Oh, man.
I figured you silver-tongued
her back to the
debutante ball.
Oh, God.
She wanted to be free, I...
Man, who's free?
Not her. Not you.
Not anybody!
Everybody in the world is
living in a prison they built.
They're the wardens, inmates.
The razor wire, the chains.
Tower guard.
I don't know what to do
sometimes.
Whatever it...
I just...
Man, why are you here?
To see her?
I'm...
(EXHALES)
I'm tired.
You're here for love.
Her, me.
And that's all right.
I only ever wanted you
to know that I love you.
I love you.
Stop it.
-I love you.
-I said stop.
I love all of you.
The dark, light,
the high, low.
Everything
you've ever done.
What you pretend to be.
Who you really are.
I love everything.
All of you.
Do you love me?
Do you?
(INSTRUMENTAL CHRISTMAS
MUSIC PLAYING)
Hi. My name is Sam Hodiak.
I'm a friend of Martha's.
She said I might be calling.
Yeah. Uh... Oh... No.
No, I'm not looking
for a good time,
but you sound...amazing.
I just...
What I'm looking for is, uh,
000an old roommate of yours,
an old friend of Martha's,
Louise Mitchell?
No? Nothing?
Oh. Well, that's too bad.
Well, uh... What?
She had a son?
Gregory? Huh.
Well, how old might Gregory
be right now?
Wow, okay, uh...
Thank you.
And... No, I think all my
good times are covered,
but if something
should come up,
you will be
the first to know, Kandi.
Randi. Mandi. Okay.
Thank you.
WOMAN: Well, what can I do
to make it better?
Uh, if... If... Maybe I...
Whose idiot idea
is this?
Straight from the lieutenant.
-Come on.
-Hey, you don't like it,
get a cold, go home.
I sure as hell
wouldn't mind
a long ride alone with that.
MARKHAM: Cute.
No. "Cute" you take
to the movies.
"Cute" meets your mom.
That ass? Demands.
Sabovich,
that's my daughter.
What?
She's somebody's daughter.
And if you can't be
decent human males,
at least be funnier.
Right now you're just being
what a cop-hating world
expects.
And look out for her,
especially you, Sabovich.
Dumb Polack.
Your buddy's a little harsh.
Ah, but you get to know him...
He's worse.
SABOVICH: Roger that.
They're not so bad.
Well, Markham's not.
The Polack could
talk less and bathe more.
Fair point.
You know Lou's letting me
do a ride-along?
Oh, yeah?
Down in Watts.
Your old beat, right?
Yeah. That's a little
far south for us.
Lot of action, I hear.
That there is.
What are we doing down there?
They're light on patrol,
so they're pulling
from other divisions.
Not everybody an action fan
I guess, huh?
I am.
Well, that's something
you'll outgrow.
The guys seem nice.
Well, uh... They're guys.
What does that mean?
Eyes and ears sharp.
Okay.
(MUSIC PLAYING)
Uh... No, no, no, no, no.
Oh, God, ah...
-(PANTS UNZIPPING)
-Ah!
Hurt me.
Hurt...
Me.
How?
You're the boss...
This time.
MARKHAM: So...
You got a boyfriend?
No, I don't.
What? Come on,
you're kidding me.
A pretty little thing
like you?
-No.
-You moving in on my girl?
-Easy now.
-Right in front of my face.
(LAUGHS) Come on, man.
Chili dogs?
SABOVICH: Wanna beat
the street. Hearty breakfast.
Mmm-hmm. Ah...
So, where do we
go from here?
Thinking we roust
some whores down on 44th,
give you some company
in the backseat.
(MARKHAM CHUCKLES)
Well, if you want whores
at this time of day,
-you gotta go to Slauson.
-Mmm!
(CHUCKLES) Look at you!
-Genius on patrol.
-That's impressive.
Too bad you'll never
get to do it.
(GUNSHOTS)
(MUSIC PLAYING)
Whoo!
-You all right?
-(LAUGHS) Yeah!
Primo-rimo.
Uh... Consider your target
fully softened.
(GIGGLING)
-Hey, handsome.
-Lucille.
Look at you!
So, uh, what can we
do you for?
Uh, well...
You mind talking
a little business?
Good timing.
Back room.
Look, you clearly
had issues with Jimmy.
Understood.
And clearly,
you have plans for Roy.
Smart. Now, I'm just looking
to see if I fit in anywhere.
LUCILLE: Well, you're cute.
But I got that one covered.
For now.
What else you bring
to the party?
Just ask Roy.
(ROY CHUCKLES)
I don't know, man.
I like you. I do.
But every time I see you,
it's a little different
version of you.
Party time,
you're a party boy.
Slick-dick stripper lunch,
check you out, Mr. Preppy.
What's your closet
look like, man?
You got a cape and cowl
in there, too?
(LAUGHS) Man, you get to be
one person all day, every day.
Lucky you. However,
some of us got friends
and family who would fully
freak if the truth came out.
Now, my closet is square,
but... Trunk of my car?
Something to look at.
Got a whole
lotta me's in there.
Have a look.
You can borrow a blouse.
(LAUGHS)
LUCILLE: You want
your passport stamped?
Go see  guapo.
Get right with  guapo,
you're right with me.
Good luck finding him.
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
What is it?
Somebody called for you.
Said it was an emergency.
Sister's been
in a car accident?
I gotta take this.
(PHONE RINGS)
-Hodiak.
-I don't have a sister.
-Yeah. Something happened.
-What?
Is Kristin okay?
Bernadette?
No, they're fine.
There's been a shooting.
Charmain, your buddy,
his partner.
I don't...
I don't have all the details.
-Oh, my God.
-Yeah, one's dead.
One's critical.
I'm on my way right now.
-Where?
-I need you to drop everything
-and meet me there.
-I will.
-Where is it?
-It's in Watts,
about two blocks
from Panther Headquarters.
(SIREN BLARING)
(COUGHING)
(INDISTINCT TALKING
OVER POLICE RADIO)
Charmain.
Drink this.
(SIRENS WAILING)
You're in shock.
It's five sugars.
Drink it now.
Charmain,
I need you to focus.
(SOBBING)
Are they...
Are they both...
(SHUTTER CLICKING)
Hey, come on.
Get outta here!
Flannery, we are 28 minutes
behind the shooter.
What are you doing?
Writing a novel?
Will you come inside
with me?
We were talking...
(VOICE BREAKING)
And Sabovich said...
Do you trust me?
What?
Yes.
(GASPS)
(SOBBING)
Let it out.
Let it all out.
You've been through
one of the worst things ever.
The only thing that
can make it right is you.
You understand?
Charmain?
Do you understand?
Yeah. Okay.
I want you to take
a breath, right now
and stop crying,
right now
and remember
your training, right now.
CHARMAIN:  I saw a jacket
like a windbreaker, gloves.
SAM:  Was he colored?
I... I...
You don't know
if he was colored?
The sun was behind him.
It was only a few seconds
-before he started...
-Stop. Close your eyes.
Close your eyes.
What did you smell?
-What did I...
-Don't think.
-What was it?
-Gunpowder.
Good. Anything else?
I... I...
I never saw his face, I...
But his arm.
I... I saw his arm.
No.
He was white.
He's white.
-Are you sure?
-Yes.
Good. Keep going.
And then what?
-I fell.
-Where was your weapon?
I...
(GUNSHOT)
It fell.
I... I tried to...
Tried? Show me.
I was... Here. It...
It was right...
(SHUDDERING)
I looked...
-But I...
-What then?
What'd you see?
Nothing. But I heard...
(TIRES SCREECHING)
(CRASHING)
(INAUDIBLE)
(TELEPHONES RINGING)
(REPORTERS CLAMORING)
CUTLER: All right, everybody.
(SHOUTING) Everybody, damn it!
(WHISTLES)
Stop and listen!
If you got hard information,
write it up.
Small words,
short sentences,
no theories.
And I see anyone waste
a single second on tears,
fire yourself.
Time is the enemy.
This son of a bitch
is our prey and we hunt
with God's own fury
until he is caged or dead.
Go.
Looking for a blue Riviera,
'63 or later, two-door.
Charmain give you that?
The blue part and that it
sideswiped a red Studebaker.
The late model Buick two-door,
Moran got off the cook
that was out back.
And leaky oil pan,
off the scene.
SAM: The bloody boot print
is a common crepe bottom
work boot.
The weapon is
a Colt 1911 .45.
And you buy her description?
That the shooter's white?
In that neighborhood?
Hysterical female...
I don't think anyone's
buying that.
How long were Markham and
Sabovich on loan down there?
This was their second day.
All right, where were they
before that, exactly?
Southwest.
-Right, so that's...
That's roughly...
-Yeah.
SAM: All right.
Deputy commissioner's
got SWAT on standby.
Oh, that's great. Neighborhood
wired like a bomb,
add a battalion of
white cops in helmets
and high-powered rifles...
What could possibly go wrong?
Sam, what if
Charmain's wrong?
What if the shooter
is a spade?
You wanna go pull him
out of Watts alone?
SHAFE: Excuse me,
excuse me.
I got him.
You got who?
I caught him at home,
just him and his bodyguard.
-He come willingly?
-Once I pulled my gun,
disarmed 'em both
and cuffed him.
Anybody else down there
see you pick him up?
No. Pretty clean. I hustled
him through the back, so...
He's all ours,
and it's our eyes only.
You okay with this?
Markham and I were
in the academy,
and our wives are friends.
He's got
three-year-old twins.
Today I'm okay with
whatever gets it done.
(DOOR OPENING)
Well, hello!
I'm trying to help you
here, Bunchy.
Call my lawyer. Explain
your form of help to him.
Special weapons
and tactical, SWAT.
The LAPD's duly licensed
assassins?
-I'm all too familiar.
-No, not as familiar
as you're gonna be.
Two dead cops on that block...
That's curfews,
that's checkpoints.
Sniper nests,
door-to-door presence.
A war's coming?
Well, that's why
we're an army.
And it's the worst kind of war
'cause it's stupid,
and it'll never end.
It's the only kind white
America knows how to fight.
Hey, just stop talking to me
like you're passing out
your pamphlets.
The LAPD is searching
for a colored shooter
that's gonna leave your world
turned inside out,
upside down,
and pretty much
locked down forever
because they won't find him.
You're not showing your usual
faith in law enforcement.
Because the shooter is white.
Your bosses think that?
Our bosses
are highly doubtful.
But I think we're looking
for a male, 6'2" to 6'4",
20s to 50s,
driving a blue Riviera sedan
with a red scratch
on the passenger side
and a pretty bad oil leak.
And he is very, very white.
You wanna keep SWAT
out of your daily life,
show us you're an army.
Who hurt you?
You should know.
It was your idea.
I'm sorry.
It's okay.
(INHALES)
I guess we got karma,
him and me.
I need to get settled
into the here and now.
You can't do anything
to him.
You're right.
Our karmic business
is for me to forgive him.
To teach him forgiveness.
Or let him take
his own path, however...
...destructive
that may be for him.
Charlie...
You've shown me, Ken.
Thank you.
Thank you, Ken.
I need to open his mind,
not his skull.
-(LAUGHS)
-I'm serious, Charlie.
He's tied to me.
My family.
If you really
care about me,
I'm under
the microscope now.
The campaign.
You understand that?
Nobody you will ever know
understands you better.
I'll make sure
the cop leaves you alone.
But you do the same.
My Kenny-Ken.
Guardian angel.
Just in time for Christmas.
It's Christmas!
Oh, ha! Kenny-Ken,
it's Christmas!
Oh, gosh, you...
You want some eggnog?
Hi, Daddy.
No, I'm fine, I just...
I wanted to hear your voice.
Are you having a party?
It's hard to...
No, sorry... I can call back.
(LOUDER)
I can call back.
Yeah, I'm fine. Bye.
(ANNOUNCER ON TV
SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY)
What?
The hospital.
(SIGHS) Sabovich.
Right after they got him
in the operating room, um...
He's dead.
(SLAM)
DUNPHY: Why don't you
get out of here?
I thought that
I'd be needed to ID...
You're not needed.
You never were.
You had no business there.
-Go to hell.
-Look at you.
-Sal.
-DUNPHY: I mean,
that's not a uniform.
-It's a costume.
-Sal.
Your costume, your hair...
CHARMAIN:
Why don't you go to hell?
DUNPHY:
It's all got two good men
-killed today.
-SHAFE: Leave her alone.
And why are you still alive?
-Why didn't you get
a shot off?
-Get away from me now!
What are you...
You're just a pretty
little thing...
Get your hands off of me!
(PUNCHING AND SLAMMING)
-Just calm down, calm down!
-Get off of me!
Calm down.
(WOMAN TALKING INDISTINCTLY
OVER POLICE RADIO)
Oh, my God.
-Oh, my God.
-What?
Two more cops
just got shot.
Unis again, uh...
Dead.
One's colored,
and one's white.
Right?
(INAUDIBLE)
Well, thank you, ma'am.
Thanks, Ron.
Have a nice day.
Thank you.
(DOG BARKING)
Uh, hey, hi. Uh...
I'm looking for
Glenn Lesick.
-Who are you?
-I don't know if I have
the right Glenn Lesick. Um...
My uncle died last month,
and my aunt said that he owed
a buddy of his some money.
A guy named Glenn Lesick.
Now, she's never met him,
but, uh, I called
a while ago, but no answer.
And I just happened to be
in the neighborhood.
Okay, uh, sorry.
Sorry to bother you.
Uh, how much?
Did my uncle owe?
Uh, $1,100.
You got it on you?
Of course. Yeah.
(CLEARS THROAT) Glenn?
Glenn, you're gonna
want to get out here.
Hi.
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
Hi. I...
Hi, um...
Uh, do you mind
if I come in real quick?
I think this is for you.
Thank you.
(DOG BARKING)
Sorry about this.
It's not that I
don't trust you, just...
I want to be sure.
It's a lot of money.
Well...
Looks good.
Glenn, he's got a gun.
Easy, easy, easy.
Just... Glenn, I'm a cop...
(COCKS GUN)
Just relax, okay?
-Just relax...
-Get it.
Easy. Easy.
You should put the gun down.
You don't want to do this.
I'm just...
-Think. Think, Glenn.
-SHAFE: Relax, relax.
-Think about your wife
and baby.
-(BABY WAILING)
We're police officers, Glenn.
We want to ask you a few
questions, but you gotta put
the gun down.
Glenn?
Glenn, there are more
cops on the way.
This is gonna get to
a bad place really fast,
a place that we're not gonna
be able to pull it
back from, Glenn.
-Put it down.
-SHAFE: That's your wife.
-Put the gun down.
SHAFE: Put it down.
SAM: Put it down.
(BABY CRYING LOUDLY)
Down on your knees.
Down on the ground.
On the ground!
Now lock your fingers.
(BABY WAILING)
(SIREN BLARING IN DISTANCE)
Well, good news is the car.
Oil matches, scratches...
It was definitely
at the shooting.
But Mr. Lesick is saying the
car was stolen earlier today
and that he discovered it
abandoned a few blocks away.
Which he failed
to report to the police.
Well, the witness in Watts who
gave you the partial plates
can't positively ID
Mr. Lesick as the driver.
This isn't the weapon that was
used in any of the shootings.
You don't have his boots,
gloves, clothes.
He tested negative
for gunpowder in the paraffin.
What about the Nazi
reading list?
Found only in his trash.
He claims it isn't his.
And there seems to be
some question
as to whether your initial
search was wholly legal.
(SCOFFS)
Maybe somebody didn't wait
for the, uh,
warrant to be issued?
So, what, we should have
just left the scene
so the old lady could burn it
while we went to a judge?
The guy pulled a gun on me.
He and his wife both claim
that you were already
drawing your weapon
before you identified
yourself as a police officer.
And given your whole...
(SCOFFS)
Well... It's somewhat
understandable.
Which brings us
to your report, Detective.
Yes, sir.
Where is it?
Gee, I submitted it.
Didn't I?
-Not yet, no.
-I didn't?
Wow. With all
the confusion...
I know I typed it up.
I... I'll get it for you.
I need to have a word
with you in private, okay?
-Okay.
-Here's a good spot
right here.
But...
-What?
Eyes up.
You think you don't
belong in here,
maybe you don't.
Describe him.
White male.
Fair. Mid-30s.
Facial hair, 6'3", 220.
Which is exactly what I
wrote down on my notebook
when you described
the shooter to me
at the scene.
-No, I told you...
-Yes, you did!
-I can't lie.
-Yes, you can and yes,
you will,
or two people are gonna walk
out of this building today,
you and him.
The difference being
that one day,
a lot of dead cops later,
-he's gonna be back.
-You want me to testify
-under oath...
-Look around.
Damn it, look around!
Four of us are dead.
No one here would do
any different.
But if he did it,
if he was guilty...
-Then there must be...
-This isn't a fairy tale,
Charmain.
Decide now.
You gonna stop trying
to be one of us,
or are you gonna be
one of us?
I am.
-You are?
-I am.
You are what?
-One of you.
-Yeah?
Prove it.
She's not quite
as good as you.
Well, she's young.
She's doing
the best she can.
She's gonna be
a good cop someday.
I hope.
I don't know about that.
I meant she's almost
as good a liar as you.
-I'm not a liar.
-And how would I know that?
Hopefully never.
Lesick will be arraigned
for the murder of four
officers tomorrow morning.
I take it you'll be there?
Every day
till he's tied and fried,
and if you need someone
to pull the switch,
I'll hold an auction.
Couldn't have done it
without your guy tagging that
partial at the second scene.
Do us both a favor...
Keep it to yourself.
Well, if you will, I will.
Oh, and, Bunchy,
Merry Christmas.
Blow it out your ass, Hodiak.
Oh! All right.
All right.
Think I made a new friend.
Thanks.
Anything else?
Nope. Unless you have
something to say,
which would be...
Understandable.
My father is an unreliable,
morally ambiguous,
charming drunk.
Oh, yeah?
So?
So you know what
you smell like to me?
Home cooking.
(BELLS CHIMING)
(CHRISTMAS BLUES PLAYING)